#9 Workflow execution (#26)
Inbibo/shift_docs: docs/getting_started/basics/execute.md

# Workflow Execution

> A node in a workflow gets executed when its been computed successfully and outputs a result. Once a node has been executed, it will be **clean** and will not be recomputed unless it gets **dirty**. A node will be dirty whenever a plug value is modified or the workflow gets saved. Shift will use dirty propagation to identify the nodes affected by the modifications done to a node and flag them to be recomputed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The execution of node in a Shift workflow relates to the computation of its internal logic and, if performed succesfully, updates its output plugs with the corresponding result. Once the execution of a node completes successfully, it gets flagged as **clean** and will not be recomputed unless it becomes **dirty** again. The dirty status is set whenever a plug value is modified or the workflow gets saved or manually reset via the Shift UI. Shift will use dirty propagation to identify the nodes affected by the modifications done to a node and flag them to be recomputed.
```

Author: I changed the description according to what we commented through the chat, please have a look

> There are different ways a workflow can be executed, which depends on which nodes will get computed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are different ways a workflow can be executed, which depend on which nodes will get computed. 
```

## ![Execute All Button](../../images/toolbar/execute_all_default.svg){:width="25" height="25"} Execute All

> The "Execute All" action will compute all the nodes present in the workflow. 

Reviewer 2: Should we mention that will compute all the **dirty** nodes present in the workflow? Because if you execute all the nodes, and then, without clearing the nodes, you press Execute All again, it won't execute the graph because it is already computed.

Author: Done!

![Execute All](../../images/execute_all.gif)

## ![Execute Selected Button](../../images/toolbar/execute_selected_default.svg){:width="25" height="25"} Execute Selected

The "Execute Selected" action will compute all the selected nodes in the workflow. To do so, Shift will identify the workflow sub-graph required to evaluate the desired nodes and execute it.

![Execute Selected](../../images/execute_selected.gif)

## ![Execute Next Button](../../images/toolbar/execute_next_default.svg){:width="25" height="25"} Execute Next

The "Execute Next" action will compute the next dirty node present in the workflow. This allows to execute one node at a time and becomes useful to closely follow and inspect the processing of the workflow.

![Execute Next](../../images/execute_step_by_step.gif)

> ## ![Clear Execution Button](../../images/toolbar/clear_all_default.svg){:width="25" height="25"} Stop Execution

Reviewer 3: This should be Clear Execution not Stop Execution, right?

Author: Yes, changed name

Reviewer 3: thx!

> The "Stop Execution" action will set all the nodes in the workflow to dirty. All **connected** inputs and output values will be cleared to their default values. This forces Shift to recompute all nodes the next time the workflow has to be executed. 

Author: At the moment, we are calling "Stop Execution" to the action of clearing the workflow. The button does not stop the execution perse, and the icon does not indicate that that's the behavior of the button anyways.  
Should we change in Shift the name of the button so it doesn't cause confusion?

Reviewer 3: I think some time ago we had a similar conversation, and we decided that because when threading would be in place the behavior will be the one to stop, the button should keep the same name.

However, my point is the same as at that discussion. The button is cleaning the execution stack, and would have much sense for the user to be a "Reset" or a "Clean" button.

Reviewer 4: Right now it is more `reset execution`. But I would keep it as stop execution because once we have implemented threading it will be stop execution.

Author: Issue has been created
https://github.com/Inbibo/shift/issues/1102
